# Kingdom Death: Monster - Worldbuilding
Extracted from Core Rulebook 1.6
Total Passages: 27

---

After they defeat the White 
    Lion, the survivors wander the 
    darkness, drawn to a soft glow 
    blooming on the horizon.

*Page 36*

---

Dice & Tables                                         Lantern 10                             Conflicts and the Rule of Death                             SURVIVAL  GUIDE

*Page 41*

---

Core  Rules -
                                                                          - Rules -
                                                                                                                                                                       SURVIVORS

*Page 43*

---

Other survival actions are added as a result of 
                                                     adding innovations to the settlement. When the set-
                                                     tlement innovates Language, Paint, Inner Lantern, 
                                                     and Destiny, survivors gain the ability to encourage,

*Page 43*

---

Strength 
                    A starting survivor’s strength is 0. 4 | Survivor Locations
                    Strength is added to the result of a 
                    wound roll to determine the force    Hit Locations
                    of the attack. Strength can be a 
                    negative number, in which case it 
                    is subtracted from the roll result.

*Page 44*

---

Evasion 
                    A starting survivor’s evasion is 0. 
                    Evasion is added to a monster’s 
                    attack profile accuracy to deter-
                    mine the difficulty of the attack. 
                    Evasion can be a negative number,                                                         Whenever players fill heavy injury levels on the sur-
                    in which case it is subtracted from                                                       vivor record sheet, their survivor is knocked down, 
                    the attack profile’s accuracy.                                                            as noted below each hit location name.

*Page 44*

---

Luck 
                    Luck is a survivor’s chance to 
                    cause a critical wound from a 
                    wound roll. A starting survivor’s 
                    luck is 0, which means they only 
                    cause critical wounds on a result    Hit locations are areas of the survivor’s body that can 
                    of 10 (lantern face on 1d10).

*Page 44*

---

Gear Grid                                            Duplicate Gear                                       Armor Sets
                                                     Except for weapons, a survivor may not have mul-     A completed armor set will bestow the survivor with 
The gear currently in a survivor’s gear grid is what tiple copies of the same gear in their gear grid. A  a bonus listed on an armor set card. Usually, armor 
the survivor is wearing and carrying.                survivor gains the benefits of a weapon’s special    that is part of a set all have names that begin with the 
                                                     rules only once, no matter how many copies they      same word(s).
                                                     have. Additional copies of weapons still contribute 
                                                     affinities.

*Page 47*

---

While a survivor is wearing all armor from a single 
                                                                                                          settlement location with the set keyword, they have 
                                                                                                          completed the set and gain the benefits on the corre-
                                                                                                          sponding armor set card.

*Page 47*

---

part special effects on the survivor if the affinity re- The Survivor gains the +1 luck affinity bonus from 
quirements are met.                                  their Lucky Charm when they have two or more com-
    Affinity requirements are indicated by a number  plete blue squares anywhere on their gear grid.
of small colored squares in the gear’s special rules. 
Each colored square represents one affinity that     Puzzle Affinities
must be in a survivor’s gear grid. You must have the In addition, some affinity bonuses can only be gained 
affinities the rule specifies to gain the bonus of the 
gear. 
    For instance, the +1 luck bonus on the Lucky

*Page 49*

---

Lost Gear and Affinity Bonus
                                                                                                           If gear forming part of an affinity is lost during the hunt 
                                                                                                           or showdown and no longer completes affinities in a 
                                                                                                           survivor’s gear grid, any affinity bonuses relying on 
Charm gear card has a requirement of 2 blue affini-                                                        these affinities are also lost.
ties.

*Page 49*

---

A Monster’s basic action is detailed on its Basic Ac-
Terrain and Deployment                               tion card. A basic action consists of a target action Side B
This section describes what terrain to set up on the and an attack action with an attack profile. 
showdown board, and where to place the survivors         Monsters will perform a basic action on some AI 
and monster. Terrain and setting up the showdown     cards, in some reactions, or if there are no AI cards 
board are fully-detailed in the Showdown Phase and   left to be drawn from the AI deck. Performing a basic 
Terrain sections, respectively.                      action does not count as an AI card being drawn.

*Page 53*

---

Core  Rules -
                                                                           - Rules -
                                                                                                                                                                        TERRAIN
Terrain                                              Survivors and Terrain
                                                     Terrain cards with  indicate the corresponding terrain 
The landscape of Kingdom Death is strewn with odd    can be activated. Survivors adjacent to or on spaces 
features and relics that may prove advantageous to   occupied by this kind of terrain may spend activation 
survivors fighting for their lives.                  to use the rules listed on the terrain card.

*Page 61*

---

Mineral Gathering and Herb Gathering                 If no cards remain in the survivors’ space, the sur-
    Mineral Gathering and Herb Gathering are story       vivors move one space toward the monster and the 
    events that may be triggered during the hunt by add- event revealer draws the top event card in the new 
    ing their unique hunt event cards to the hunt board. space and follows the rules on the card.

*Page 64*

---

Hunt event cards are resolved one at a time, from top 
                                                         to bottom. Unless compelled to move by an event, 
                                                         the survivors must resolve all hunt events in their cur-
                                                         rently-occupied space before moving. 
                                                             The monster does not move unless an event 
                                                         specifies otherwise.

*Page 64*

---

Bash: The survivor is knocked down.                                                                       Healing
                                                                                                          When a monster performs heal X, they return X 
Bleed X: The survivor gains X bleeding tokens. If no                                                      wounds from the Wound Stack to the AI deck. Without 
number is specified, gain 1 bleeding token.                                                               looking at them, take the number of wounds healed 
                                                                                                          from the top of the Wound Stack and place them on 
Intimidate                                                                                                the bottom of the AI deck.
Intimidate actions are not attacks, and survivors can

*Page 73*

---

place a survivor on an impassable terrain tile, instead 
                                                                                                             they collide with it. The survivor suffers collision and is 
                                                                                                             placed in an unoccupied space adjacent to the terrain 
                                                                                                             tile and as close to the monster as possible.

*Page 74*

---

Showdown Board Edges
                                                                                                             Survivors and monsters cannot move off the show-
                                                                                                             down board or be knocked off the board.

*Page 74*

---

Knocked Down & Standing                               - While a monster is knocked down, all reactions    Movement
Monsters and survivors are standing unless they are    are canceled. This includes reactions that might be Survivors can spend  to move. Survivors move one 
knocked down. While a survivor or monster is knocked   beneficial to survivors. (This does not cancel critical space at a time, to any adjacent unoccupied space, 
down, they cannot be knocked down again.               wounds, since they are not reactions.)             moving only in cardinal directions (not diagonal).

*Page 75*

---

Survivor Attribute Modifier
                                                         Calculate the survivor attribute modifier by adding the survivor's respective attribute, positive or negative tokens, modifiers from gear 
                                                         special rules, fightings arts, abilities, impairments, disorders, permanent injuries, and anything else that modifies that attribute.

*Page 76*

---

Allister attempts to wound the Fleshy Gut            Erza attempts to wound the Furious Gut               Lucy has two +1 luck tokens. She rolls an 8 to 
and rolls a lantern 10. This is a critical wound!    and rolls a lantern 10. The hit location does        wound the Restless Rump. This is a critical 
The monster suffers a wound and then pukes           not have a critical wound effect, so it cannot       wound! The Reflex reaction that would have 
all over Allister. He gains +3 insanity and a        be critically wounded. The monster suffers a         knocked down Erza is canceled. The critical 
           random basic resource.                     wound and the wound reaction is performed.               wound effects are performed instead.

*Page 79*

---

During the settlement phase, you will welcome back 
     any returning survivors, advance your society, and 
     prepare for upcoming challenges.

*Page 83*

---

Keywords: Innovations have a type (Paint’s type is   Survival Limit                                       The majority of a settlement’s resources are spent 
    art) and an origin (Paint is a language consequence). Some innovations change your settlement’s Survival  at settlement locations. At the start of the campaign, 
                                                         Limit. When these are innovated, increase the Sur-   survivors have one settlement location—the Lantern 
    Rules: Some innovations, like Language, have per-    vival Limit on the Settlement Record Sheet. If these Hoard. Additional locations are added to the settle-
    sistent benefits. Others will allow you to endeavor at innovations are lost, decrease the Survival Limit. ment from existing settlement locations and from sto-
    these innovations for potential gain.                                                                     ry events.

*Page 86*

---

Complete the settlement phase normally. Departing    Update the Nemesis Monster List
Settlement locations have the following components:  survivors skip the hunt phase and consult the story  After a nemesis monster and level are chosen by 
Name: The name of the settlement location.           event for the nemesis monster to setup the show-     players (or selected by an event), fill in the corre-
                                                     down phase. Nemesis Encounters are listed a few      sponding box on the Settlement Record Sheet Nem-
Gear: Any gear listed on a settlement location card is different ways on the timeline:                    esis Monster list if it is currently unfilled.
available to be crafted there.

*Page 87*

---

1d10   Any survivor - Consume                               instant, the survivors understand.
                                                                                                                            All non-deaf      survivors gain +1 understanding and 
                                                               9 +    The water is clean and pure, like none the survivor has suffer 1 brain event damage. If they areinsane  they also 
                                                                      ever tasted. Gain +1 survival.                       gain 1 random disorder.

*Page 101*

---

Story Event Story  -
                                                      RETURNING SURVIVORSRETURNING

*Page 165*

---

Custom Campaigns                                     Skull Ritual
If you’re itching for more after completing the main The settlement performs an exotic, violent dance 
Kingdom Death: Monster campaign, the game is         with plenty of chanting. 
easily customizable for a group that is familiar with Cost: 1 skull resource, 1 endeavor
the rules.                                           Nominate up to 4 survivors to consume the skull. 
    One simple way to customize your campaign is     They gain a permanent +1 to all their attributes.
creating a custom timeline. Switch nemesis encoun-
ters, add new story event triggers, etc.             Black Skull

*Page 229*

---

