                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Core  Rules -
                                                                                                       - Rules -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          HUNT  EVENT  TABLE
100 | The Finale

An enormous, metallic sound rings out from a distance. 
All survivors are electrified with dread; they suffer 2 brain 
event damage.
      The survivors may follow the sound. Otherwise, they 
panic and retreat in the opposite direction; end this event 
and move the survivors 2 spaces back on the hunt board.
      Each survivor gains +1 courage and gingerly ap-
proaches the sound’s origin. As they travel, they pass the 
shattered corpses of strange beasts. 
      If any survivor has 3+ understanding, they follow the 
trail of corpses. Otherwise, harvest 3 random basic re-
sources from the corpses and end this event.
      Arriving at a massive anvil, the survivors see a giant, 
one-eyed knight, its charcoal-colored armor reflecting their 
lantern light. The event revealer rolls 1d10.
 1d10    Event revealer
 1       The knight stares at the survivors. All survivors with 
         less than 3 courage are struck dead. All other survi-
         vors flee in horror.
 2 - 8   The knight approaches the survivors. In an instant, 
         it chops off a random survivor's ear; they gain 1 
         bleeding token. Then, it strikes the anvil, blinding 
         the survivors with a churning wall of sound. When 
         they open their eyes, the knight is gone and the Steel 
         Sword and Steel Shield rare gear rest in its place. The 
         group divides the gear between them.
 9 +     The knight smashes the object in its hands upon the 
         anvil. When the molten orange object cools, it sets 
         into a massive lion-faced hammer. The knight places it 
         in the hands of the survivor with the highest courage 
         (roll off in case of ties). They gain the Thunder Maul 
         rare gear. A current of electricity runs through their 
         body, joining weapon and survivor forever.


                                                                                                                                                                                    Kingdom Death: Monster Core Game  105
