                                                                                                                                                                       Core  Rules -
                                                                          - Rules -
                                                                                                                                                                       MONSTERS

                  Life Trait                         reduced to 0 the monster is dead. One consequence                    Proxy Cards
                                                     of Life is that a monster does not lose AI cards and is There are 8 proxy cards included with the game (two 
                                                     always fighting with its full deck!                  of each number). These cards can 
                                                                                                          be used to replace cards you’ve 
                                                     Rules that trigger when the monster is wounded still lost or when a gaming group de-
                                                     apply as normal. For instance, if the Hand had the   cides to customize their experi-
                                                     Life trait, wounding the monster would still add tokens ence.
                                                     to Impossible Eyes.                                      For some ideas on customiz-
                                                                                                          ing your game experience refer to 
                                                     When a monster with Life heals, if the monster’s cur- the Gameplay Variants section.
                                                     rent Life is less than its starting value, increase the 
                                                     Life number by the indicated amount (up to the start-
                                                     ing value).                                                          Indomitable

                                                     If any rules would give the monster the Life trait multi- Indomitable is a unique     trait card used for 
                                                     ple times, combine the listed amounts to find the Life encounters with all level 3+ 
                                                     trait’s starting number.                             monsters. These monsters 
                                                                                                          are so powerful that they 
                                                     The Great Golden Cat from the Legendary Monsters     stand much faster when 
                                                     Story Event, has     Life 15 listed under its Char-  they are knocked down, 
                                                     acteristics. This means the monster starts with 15   providing a very narrow 
                                                     wounds. Place 1d10 on Life with the 1 face showing   opportunity for survivors 
                                                     to represent the 10’s place and 1d10 with the 5 face to take advantage of 
                                                     showing to represent the ones place. The resulting   their weakened state.
                                                     number showing should be 15. 
                                                         The Great Golden Cat has 6 AI cards and it will 
The Life card is a unique trait card that is used for en- not lose any of them when its wounded. Instead, re-
counters with some monsters and gameplay variants.   duce the number showing on Life by 1 each time the 
It represents a monster’s life in place of its AI deck. A Great Golden Cat is wounded.                    Monster Level 
                                                                                                          Symbol 
pair of d10s should be placed in the marked spaces 
                                                                                                          The    symbol on all game cards and 
using the dice faces to represent a numerical value. Gameplay Variants
                                                                                                          events refers to the monster’s level. It can be found in 
                                                     In this rulebook, the 5-6 Player variant uses the Life 
                                                                                                          Kingdom Death: Monster expansions and on the af-
Monsters with Life                                   trait.
                                                                                                          termath of some Nemesis monsters. For example, an 
When a monster has the     Life listed in its monster 
                                                                                                          AI card instructs a survivor to suffer  brain damage. 
characteristics it will be followed by a number. This In order to balance the encounter with additional sur-
                                                                                                          In a showdown against a level 2 monster. This would 
is the number of wounds the Life trait starts with. In- vivors, monsters will gain the Life trait in addition to 
                                                                                                          be 2 brain damage.
stead of removing wounds by removing AI cards to     normal wounds tracked by their AI decks. To begin 
the wound stack, wound the monster by reducing the   moving AI cards to the wound stack, the survivors 
number on the Life trait. When the number on Life is must first reduce a monster’s Life trait to 0.


                                                                                                                                  Kingdom Death: Monster Core Game  55
