                                                                                                                                                                       Core  Rules -
                                                                          - Rules -
                                                                                                                                                                       MONSTERS
MONSTERS

Monsters have unique anatomies and behaviors. The 
bizarre, inscrutable intelligence of monsters is repre-
sented in the game by these unique components:

- Miniatures that physically represent the monster.
- Story events that define a monster’s attributes.
- Unique AI decks that control the monster’s actions.
- Hit location decks that describe the parts of mon-
sters that survivors can attack.
- Monster resources gained from defeating monsters.
- Hunt events that occur while hunting the monster.

Monster Miniatures

Miniatures are included to represent all 7 monsters 
that players will face. Some monsters have many 
parts and can be very large (like the Phoenix). 
    Only the White Lion miniature is needed to 
begin the game. Players don’t need to assemble a 
monster’s miniature until they are ready to fight it.
    As you progress through the campaign, take the 
time to build new monsters as a part of the hobby 
aspect of Monster.
    Monster miniatures are attached to 50 mm bases 
(White Lion, Screaming Antelope, Butcher, King’s Man, 
The Hand, Watcher) or 100 mm bases (Phoenix).        2 | Instinct                                         4 | Monster Characteristics & Attributes
                                                     Instincts describe what a monster does if it cannot  Monster’s characteristics and attributes are orga-
                                                     find a target to attack. Each monster has a different nized by level. Monster attributes include move-
Showdown Story Events                                instinct. A Screaming Antelope will graze around     ment, toughness, speed, and damage. Monster 
                                                     the board, but a White Lion will sniff to track its prey characteristics include level, AI deck, special AI 
Monster showdown story events describe essential     relentlessly.                                        cards, and bonus tokens.
information about encounters with a monster.                                                                  Higher-level monsters are more difficult foes. 
                                                     3 | Blind spot                                       They have more AI and Special AI cards, as well 
1 | Monster Name                                     This is a diagram of what spaces on the showdown     as higher toughness, movement, and speed than 
                                                     board are the monster’s blind spot.                  lower-level monsters.


                                                                                                                                 Kingdom Death: Monster Core Game  49
