                                                                                                                                                                       Core  Rules -
                                                                          - Rules -
                                                                                                                                                                       SETTLEMENT PHASE SETTLEMENT

                                                     Activities: Some settlement locations have unique    Nemesis Encounter: Select a nemesis monster of 
                                                     activities that can only be found at that location. Most your choice from the Nemesis Monster list on the 
                                                     activities at settlement locations require an endeavor Settlement Record Sheet. This is the monster you 
                                                     to be spent as a part of the cost of performing them. will be fighting. You must select a monster level you 
                                                                                                          have not previously faced.
                                                     Build: Some settlement locations allow survivors to 
                                                     build additional settlement locations by spending a  Nemesis Encounter - Lvl X: Select a nemesis mon-
                                                     combination of resources and endeavors.              ster of your choice from the Nemesis Monster list 
                                                                                                          on the Settlement Record Sheet. You must fight the 
                                                     Special Innovate: Some settlement locations allow    specific monster level listed, even if you have previ-
                                                     survivors to gain specific innovations by spending a ously faced it.
                                                     combination of resources and endeavors. The cost 
                                                     of these innovations is listed on the bottom of the  Nemesis Encounter - Monster Name: You must 
                                                     settlement location card that it is innovated from.  fight this specific monster. You must select a mon-
                                                         These innovations can be gained even if they     ster level you have not previously faced.
                                                     are not in your settlement’s innovation deck. 
                                                                                                          Nemesis Encounter - Monster Name Lvl X: You 
                                                     Remember to add any innovations that are conse-      must fight this named monster of the specific mon-
                                                     quences of this innovation to your settlement’s inno- ster level listed, even if you have previously faced it.
                                                     vation deck.
                                                                                                          Special Showdown
                                                     Prerequisites: Some gear and endeavors have a        Story Events and innovations may lead to a Special 
                                                     symbol. These gear or activities are not available to Showdown with a monster. Special Showdowns in-
                                                     survivors until they have fulfilled the prerequisite re- terrupt the Settlement Phase. After they conclude 
                                                     quirement listed next to the .                       (regardless of victory or defeat) the Settlement 
                                                                                                          Phase continues, returning to step 5 (Update the 
                                                                                                          Death Count). The survivors that embarked on the 
                                                                    Nemesis Monsters                      Special Showdown are not considered returning 
                                                                    If the current lantern year has a     survivors. Special Showdowns do not advance the 
                                                                    Nemesis Encounter on the timeline,    timeline so they do not generate endeavors or trig-
                                                                    departing survivors will face-off with ger new random settlement events. Details for each 
                                                     a nemesis monster waiting for them at the outskirts  Special Showdown are listed on the story event or 
                                                     of the settlement.                                   innovation that triggered it.

                                                     Complete the settlement phase normally. Departing    Update the Nemesis Monster List
Settlement locations have the following components:  survivors skip the hunt phase and consult the story  After a nemesis monster and level are chosen by 
Name: The name of the settlement location.           event for the nemesis monster to setup the show-     players (or selected by an event), fill in the corre-
                                                     down phase. Nemesis Encounters are listed a few      sponding box on the Settlement Record Sheet Nem-
Gear: Any gear listed on a settlement location card is different ways on the timeline:                    esis Monster list if it is currently unfilled.
available to be crafted there.


                                                                                                                                 Kingdom Death: Monster Core Game  85
